1. Pentax K-3 
2. Pentax K-3 ISO 1001-200 sec at f - 2.5
3.  Pentax K-3 ISO 1001-50 sec at f - 4.0
4. Pentax K-3 DSLR - 24-Megapixel APS-C CMOS Sensor


The New Standard of Performance

Benchmarked as the most advanced enthusiast DSLR available, featuring unparalleled technology and specifications, the PENTAX K-3 will set your photography free with the new standard of imaging performance and unsurpassed user-flexibility.  The K-3 touts 24 effective mega-pixels in an APS-C sensor, continuous shooting at an incredible 8.3 frames per second, and champions the world’s first selectable anti-aliasing filter, giving the user the ability to easily toggle anti-aliasing functionality on or off, for supreme resolution and zero limitation. Power your pictures using the new top-tier SAFOX11 autofocus module, and go beyond wireless functionality with the new FLU card SDHC technology for complete remote camera control, and image transfer. Complete, and capable for every serious photographer, also enjoy professional H.264 video capture, dual memory card slots, and the distinguished PENTAX weather sealing in a stunning magnesium alloy body. Harness the summit of the K-mount with the PENTAX K-3.



1. 24 effective mega-pixels in an APS-C sized CMOS sensor 
24 effective mega-pixels in an APS-C sized CMOS sensor

Designed for the demanding photographer, the K-3 features 24 effective megapixels in an APS-C sized CMOS sensor for outstanding high resolution imagery.  


2. Fastest continuous shooting at 8.3FPS

Never miss a single moment with an incredibly fast frame rate of 8.3 FPS, for extreme action capture and demanding high performance shooting. 



3. SAFOX11 Autofocus Module

The newly designed SAFOX11 autofocus module maximizes 27 AF sensors and a vast light sensitivity range of –3EV to +18EV.


4. Real Time Scene Analysis with 86,000 pixel sensor

The new Real Time Scene Analysis System features an 86,000 pixel RGB light-metering sensor and improved algorithms that further enhance accuracy of exposure, white balance and autofocusing.

5.PENTAX body-based Shake Reduction (SR)

The PENTAX-original SR stabilization system is built right into the body, and is compatible with any of the 27 million PENTAX lenses ever produced.


6. Dual SD card slots

Dual SD card slots allow for greater memory card flexibility, for separation of JPG and RAW files, and for use with Eye-fi card and new FLU card technology. 



7. Pentaprism Optical Viewfinder for 100% FOV and .95 magnification

Low profile glass pentaprism viewfinder, with interchangeable focusing screens, achieves a 100% optical field of view for framing accuracy in a highly compact form factor. 


8. Magnesium alloy body w stainless steel chassis




Fastest continuous shooting at 8.3FPS

Never miss a single moment with an incredibly fast frame rate of 8.3 FPS, for extreme action capture and demanding high performance shooting. With a maximum 1/8000 second shutter speed, freeze even the fastest action without subject movement blur--rated for 200,000 cycles.  The K-3 continuously records as many as 22 images in the RAW format or 60 images in the JPEG format* in a single sequence. This is made possible through the use of several innovative technologies, including a high-speed, high-accuracy control mechanism that regulates the shutter, mirror and diaphragm independently; a damper mechanism that effectively minimizes mirror shock; and a high-speed data transmission system incorporated in the PRIME III imaging engine. * JPEG Recorded Pixels:L, JPEG Quality:???
Durable magnesium alloy covers surround a rugged stainless steel chassis.




24 effective mega-pixels in an APS-C sized CMOS sensor

Designed for the demanding photographer, the K-3 features 24 effective megapixels in an APS-C sized CMOS sensor for outstanding high resolution imagery.  By coupling this sensor with a newly developed PRIME III imaging engine with high-efficiency noise and image processing capacities and an anti-aliasing filter-less design, the K-3 delivers high-resolution, fine-gradation images.




Selectable Anti-Aliasing Filter

Enjoy the world’s first selectable anti-aliasing filter, giving the user the ability to easily toggle anti-aliasing functionality on or off, for supreme resolution and zero limitations. This breakthrough technology eliminates the need to commit to either supreme resolution or superior moiré control, by providing both options in a single camera body.  Newly developed for the K-3, the anti-aliasing simulator* applies microscopic vibrations to the image sensor unit at the subpixel level during image exposure, generating the same level of moiré-reduction effect as an optical anti-aliasing filter. * This function is most effective with a shutter speed of 1/1000 second or slower. This function is not available during HDR shooting.


SAFOX11 Autofocus Module

The newly designed SAFOX11 autofocus module maximizes 27 AF sensors and a vast light sensitivity range of –3EV to +18EV.  The new focus module includes 25 cross sensors and three AF sensors dedicated to low light focusing.


Real Time Scene Analysis with 86,000 pixel sensor

The new Real Time Scene Analysis System features an 86,000 pixel RGB light-metering sensor and improved algorithms that further enhance accuracy of exposure, white balance and autofocusing.



Optional FLU, Eye-fi Wireless, and SDX Memory card compatibility

With installation of the optional, dedicated 16 GB FLU CARD for PENTAX in the K-3, the photographer can remotely change settings such as aperture, shutter speed and ISO, shift the AF focus point, release the camera shutter, check Liveview image, and browse and download images to mobile devices and PC. Eye-fi Wireless and standard SDX Memory cards also compatible.



Professional H.264 video

Enhance your video recording experience with full HD movie capture in the H.264 format (60i/50i/30p/24p), also including the ability to switch from still image to video recording with the flip of a dedicated switch.  Equipped with a headphone terminal and stereo microphone terminal for external microphone connection. The user can also adjust the audio recording level manually and monitor sound levels during recording.


PENTAX body-based Shake Reduction (SR)

The PENTAX-original SR stabilization system is built right into the body, and is compatible with any of the 27 million PENTAX lenses ever produced.


Dual SD Card Slots

Dual SD card slots allow for greater memory card flexibility, for separation of JPG and RAW files, and for use with Eye-fi card and new FLU card technology.



Pentaprism Optical Viewfinder for 100% FOV and .95 magnification

Low profile glass pentaprism viewfinder, with interchangeable focusing screens, achieves a 100% optical field of view for framing accuracy in a highly compact form factor. Treated with a new coating, its glass prism improves reflectance resulting in a brighter viewfinder image. Also, its improved design assures 0.95-times viewfinder magnification for a broader image field and enhanced focus and composition confirmation.



Built-in Electronic Level

Built-in electronic level now features a tilt scale display in Liveview.


Multi-pattern white balance

When shooting scenes that include multiple light sources, such as sunlight and shade or flash, light sources are recognized automatically and the image is separated into different areas. White balance is adjusted separately in each area according to the different light sources to achieve optimal color reproduction.



Fully Weather Sealed

With 92 special seals, the K-3 boasts a fully weather and cold proof design to resist water, fog, snow, sand, and dust, for top performance in extreme field conditions as well as in the studio.



PENTAX PEF and Adobe DNG files

Native support for both PENTAX PEF and Adobe DNG 14 bit RAW files, including the ability to retrieve RAW data from JPG files if still present in buffer memory.


100-51200 ISO

High sensitivity 100-51200 ISO range with improved noise performance throughout, including ISO-specific noise reduction.


HDR Image Capture

Improved in-camera HDR image capture features more blending options and better pixel registration for easier operation without a tripod.




HDMI port

An HDMI port outputs high definition images, video and sound to HDTVs.


Magnesium alloy body w stainless steel chassis

Durable magnesium alloy covers surround a rugged stainless steel chassis.



Customizable RAW/Fx button

Customizable RAW/Fx button allows for easy access to common shooting settings.



Optional BG-5 Battery Grip

The BG-5, designed exclusively for the K-3, is the perfect match for this professional level DSLR, and optionally accepts six AA-sized batteries as well as the standard lithium-ion rechargeable battery. It features and extra set of shutter-release, AE-lock, AF, ISO, exposure-compensation and green buttons, as well as a preview lever and a dual electronic dials to facilitate vertical-position shooting. It also features the same dustproof, weather-resistant construction as the K-3 body.