The BenQ GH650 is designed as a bridge camera and should be appealing 
to those who are looking for a high zoom on a budget, while the GH210 
should appeal to those looking to stay classy on a budget.


BENQ DIG CAM GH650 16 MP-BLACK



BenQ GH650
MRP: Rs 11,990
Other than megapixels, what is one camera parameter that is wowed by the layman? 
The optical zoom! This feature is valued because it brings far off objects within the 
photographer's reach, and especially useful for nature photography. However, 
the price of such cameras has been on the higher side. BenQ attempts to break the price 
barrier with the recently introduced GH650, which is a bridge camera camera 
(a camera segment that aims to bridge the gap between point-and-shoots and SLRs) 
with a 26x optical zoom. With a 16 mp image sensor, it features OIS to take care 
of jitters during photography. While it does look good on paper, 
we'll try to find out if it can really deliver.




Design And Features
<br/>The BenQ GH350 that we received was of slate-grey colour with a slight 
<br/>lustre rather than black as mentioned on the website. 
<br/>The such a long zoom lens, the camera's on the heavier 
<br/>side at around half a kilogram. However, it is almost 
<br/>as large as an entry-level D-SLR camera that takes away some of its portability. 
<br/>The build is very chunky and strong for a camera in this 
<br/>price range and it even looks good.




The rear of the camera is dominated by a large 3" fixed LCD. 
A directional pad with a central OK button is present on the 
right to adjust various setting such as macro mode, electronic 
exposure, flash type, and self-timer. The Menu button gives access 
to the various setup options while the AE-L/AF-L locks focus and 
exposure values while shooting. A dedicated movie shooting button 
is present near the top, while a playback button is also there to 
review the recorded contents.



Coming to the top, there's a large shutter button encircled by a zoom lever, both come with a glossy piano-black finish. A physical mode dial is present to conveniently and quickly select various shooting modes. The power button is present just besides this. A pop-up flash is present on top of the lens that can only be opened via a spring-loaded mechanical switch on its side. There are two pores for left and right microphones to record stereophonic audio. Metal eyelets to connect straps are present on both sides, although you will have to purchase the strap separately.




A speaker grill is present on the left, just above a flap protecting the proprietary USB connector. No video-out is present. The camera is powered by four AA batteries hidden behind a flap at the bottom. The SD card slot is also present besides these batteries behind the door. A durable metallic groove is present on the bottom for the tripod mount. The camera can shoot up to 350 shots until the batteries exhaust, as per specifications.
In addition to the high zoom levels, the camera supports super-macro mode capable of shooting subjects as close as 1 cm from to the lens. It can record 720p movies (not 1080p) with optical image stablisation that helps to reduce the chances of a blurry photos due to camera shake. It also support a variety of creative colour filter modes, including the LOMO Mode that can apply different artistic effects to photos. HDR is also present The user can also opt for selective colour photography, meaning that only a single colour is captured and displayed, while the rest is in greyscale. The usual shooting modes including Panorama, P, Av, Tv, M, Speedy Burst, Beauty Enhancer, and Advanced Smart Scene Mode are supported. Some of the additional scene modes are HDR, Toy, Night, Waterfall, and MagiQ.
Performance
The camera starts up really fast within a second. The time between two shots is around 4 seconds, while it increases to an atrocious 10 seconds with flash.
The powerful optical zoom of 26x, which is the primary USP of this camera is really as good as it is claimed. You can check out the samples at what is achievable with such a high powered zoom.
